README.md, before:

# kubernetes-lb-controller


**Maintainers:** [feitnomore](https://github.com/feitnomore/)

This is a simple weekend hack to implement a controller for [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) responsible for assigning External IPs to `Services` of type `LoadBalancer` on a Bare Metal/Traditional VM environment.
In my case, I do this through aliases on the public interface, but can be done on multi-home environments as well.

*WARNING:* Use it at your own risk.

## INTRODUCTION

The idea of this Controller is to be able to provide Extenal IPs to `Services` of type `LoadBalancer` on traditional environments like Bare Metal or VMs. This Controller simulates the idea of the cloud plugins that can assign an IP to a `Service` of type `LoadBalancer` in a dynamic way.  
In order for this to work, the IPs that are going to be used needs to be available on the nodes that executes the `kube-proxy`. In my environments I do this by adding them to the `master` node.  
The Controller can keep track of which IPs are in use, by which `Services`, and in case a new `Service` shows up and there are no free IPs, the Controller will leave the Service in pending status.
It is possible to assign different IPs for different `Namespaces` as well, and remember, the aliases doesn't need to be in the same interface, for example, you can have some IP addresses on interface 1 for testing environemnt and some other IP addresses on interface 2 for development environment.  
The Controller takes the `Namespace` and the IP that will be available as parameter. 

## HOW TO INSTALL IT

The details below assume you are creating a `ServiceAccount`, a `ClusterRole`, a `ClusterRoleBinding`, a `ConfigMap`, a `Deployment` and a `Pod`, all on the *kube-system* `Namespace`. Please, adjust as necessary.  
*Note:* We are adding `patch, get, watch, list, update` as verbs on `services` for the `ClusterRole` we are creating.

### Create a Service Account
```sh
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/master/examples/kubernetes-lb-controller_ServiceAccount.yaml
```
### Create the Cluster Role
```sh
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/master/examples/kubernetes-lb-controller_ClusterRole.yaml
```
### Create the Cluster Role Binding
```sh
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/master/examples/kubernetes-lb-controller_ClusterRoleBinding.yaml
```
### Add IPs on your Kubernetes master node
```sh
$ sudo ip addr add 192.168.55.10/24 dev eth0 label eth0:0
$ sudo ip addr add 192.168.55.11/24 dev eth0 label eth0:1
$ sudo ip addr add 192.168.55.12/24 dev eth0 label eth0:2
```
*Note:* Assuming your public interface is `eth0`.   
*Note:* Assuming you are using network interface `aliases`.  
*Note:* Assuming your public netword CIDR is `192.168.55.0/24`.  
*Note:* We're using [Architecture 2](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/blob/master/images/arch_02.png) for this example. [Architecture 1](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/blob/master/images/arch_01.png) should work as well, however the IPs should be added to the nodes instead of the master.  

### Create the ConfigMap Descriptor
Create the kubernetes-lb-controller_ConfigMap.yaml using the IPs that were added before. The list of IPs needs to be inside a file with the `namespace` name, like the example below:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kubernetes-lb-controller
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    k8s-app: kubernetes-lb-controller
data:
  default: |-
     192.168.55.10
     192.168.55.11
     192.168.55.12
```
*Note:* The IPs are being added to the *default* `Namespace`.  
*Note:* Not much test has been done on the environment formatting, so please, try to respect the formatting above.  
*Note:* More `Namespaces` are supported, please look into the examples.  
*Note:* If you are modifying the namespace with the service running, you might need to restart the Pod.  

### Apply the ConfigMap
```sh
kubectl apply -f kubernetes-lb-controller_ConfigMap.yaml
```

### Apply the Deployment
```sh
kubectl apply -f kubernetes-lb-controller_Deployment.yaml
```

## HOW TO USE IT

The details below assumes you are creating a `Service`, of type `LoadBalancer` on the *default* `Namespace`. It also assumes you followed the previous steps and is running our controller on the *kube-system* `Namespace`. Please, adjust as necessary.

### Deploy a Service with type LoadBalancer
Create a service with `type: LoadBalancer` without specifying the external IP, like for example:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-testing-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: my-testing-service
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: my-testing-app
status:
  loadBalancer: {}
```
*Note:* The service is being created on the `default` namespace.

### Verify the Service got created and got an IP assigned to it
```sh
kubectl get services -n default -o wide
```
*Note:* We are checking the `default` namespace.  

The expected result should be:
```
NAME                 TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP      PORT(S)        AGE       SELECTOR
kubernetes           ClusterIP      10.96.0.1        <none>           443/TCP        102d      <none>
my-testing-service   LoadBalancer   10.104.131.229   192.168.55.10    80:31954/TCP   44s       app=my-testing-app
```

### Verify the Controller Logs
```sh
LB_CONTROLLER=`kubectl get pods -n kube-system | grep kubernetes-lb-controller | awk '{print $1}'`
kubectl logs $LB_CONTROLLER -n kube-system
```
*Note:* Although our service is on *default* `Namespace`, the Controller is running on *kube-system*.  

The expected result should be:
```
[Tue 2018-07-17 21:25:02] ADDED 192.168.55.10 OK namespace:default service:my-testing-service destination:10.104.131.229
[Tue 2018-07-17 21:25:02] MODIFIED 192.168.55.10 IGNORED namespace:default service:my-testing-service destination:10.104.131.229
```
*Note:* When a Service is created and we intercept it with our controller, we patch it and modify it so that we can add the desired IP. This will cause our controller to also intercept the modification. In this case we're ignoring because the service descriptor for the service will be matching the entry in our internal route table.  

### Verify the Controller Routing Table
```sh
LB_CONTROLLER=`kubectl get pods -n kube-system | grep kubernetes-lb-controller | awk '{print $1}'`
kubectl exec $LB_CONTROLLER -n kube-system cat /routes
```
*Note:* Although our service is on *default* `Namespace`, the Controller is running on *kube-system*.  
*Note:* The route table is being written to a text file called *routes* on */*.  

The expected result should be:
```
Tue 2018-07-17 21:25:02
+----------------+--------+-----------+----------------------+----------------+
|       IP       | IN USE | NAMESPACE |     SERVICE NAME     |   CLUSTER IP   |
+----------------+--------+-----------+----------------------+----------------+
| 192.168.55.10  |   y    |  default  |  my-testing-service  | 10.104.131.229 |
| 192.168.55.11  |   n    |  default  |         None         |      None      |
| 192.168.55.12  |   n    |  default  |         None         |      None      |
+----------------+--------+-----------+----------------------+----------------+
```


## REFERENCES AND IDEAS

1. [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
2. [Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/)
3. [Kubernetes Python Client](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python)
4. [Python SQLite 3](https://docs.python.org/2/library/sqlite3.html)
5. [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/)

## DOCUMENTATION

1. [Building](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/blob/master/BUILD.md)
2. [Examples](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/tree/master/examples)
3. [Tests](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/tree/master/test)

Commit message:

Added more explanation to the notes.

README.md, after:

# kubernetes-lb-controller


**Maintainers:** [feitnomore](https://github.com/feitnomore/)

This is a simple weekend hack to implement a controller for [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) responsible for assigning External IPs to `Services` of type `LoadBalancer` on a Bare Metal/Traditional VM environment.
In my case, I do this through aliases on the public interface, but can be done on multi-home environments as well.

*WARNING:* Use it at your own risk.

## INTRODUCTION

The idea of this Controller is to be able to provide Extenal IPs to `Services` of type `LoadBalancer` on traditional environments like Bare Metal or VMs. This Controller simulates the idea of the cloud plugins that can assign an IP to a `Service` of type `LoadBalancer` in a dynamic way.  
In order for this to work, the IPs that are going to be used needs to be available on the nodes that executes the `kube-proxy`. In my environments I do this by adding them to the `master` node.  
The Controller can keep track of which IPs are in use, by which `Services`, and in case a new `Service` shows up and there are no free IPs, the Controller will leave the Service in pending status.
It is possible to assign different IPs for different `Namespaces` as well, and remember, the aliases doesn't need to be in the same interface, for example, you can have some IP addresses on interface 1 for testing environemnt and some other IP addresses on interface 2 for development environment.  
The Controller takes the `Namespace` and the IP that will be available as parameter. 

## HOW TO INSTALL IT

The details below assume you are creating a `ServiceAccount`, a `ClusterRole`, a `ClusterRoleBinding`, a `ConfigMap`, a `Deployment` and a `Pod`, all on the *kube-system* `Namespace`. Please, adjust as necessary.  
*Note:* We are adding `patch, get, watch, list, update` as verbs on `services` for the `ClusterRole` we are creating.

### Create a Service Account
```sh
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/master/examples/kubernetes-lb-controller_ServiceAccount.yaml
```
### Create the Cluster Role
```sh
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/master/examples/kubernetes-lb-controller_ClusterRole.yaml
```
### Create the Cluster Role Binding
```sh
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/master/examples/kubernetes-lb-controller_ClusterRoleBinding.yaml
```
### Add IPs on your Kubernetes master node
```sh
$ sudo ip addr add 192.168.55.10/24 dev eth0 label eth0:0
$ sudo ip addr add 192.168.55.11/24 dev eth0 label eth0:1
$ sudo ip addr add 192.168.55.12/24 dev eth0 label eth0:2
```
*Note:* Assuming your public interface is `eth0`.   
*Note:* Assuming you are using network interface `aliases`.  
*Note:* Assuming your public netword CIDR is `192.168.55.0/24`.  
*Note:* We're using [Architecture 2](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/blob/master/images/arch_02.png) for this example. [Architecture 1](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/blob/master/images/arch_01.png) should work as well, however the IPs should be added to the nodes instead of the master.  

### Create the ConfigMap Descriptor
Create the kubernetes-lb-controller_ConfigMap.yaml using the IPs that were added before. The list of IPs needs to be inside a file with the `namespace` name, like the example below:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kubernetes-lb-controller
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    k8s-app: kubernetes-lb-controller
data:
  default: |-
     192.168.55.10
     192.168.55.11
     192.168.55.12
```
*Note:* The IPs are being added to the *default* `Namespace`.  
*Note:* Not much test has been done on the environment formatting, so please, try to respect the formatting above.  
*Note:* More `Namespaces` are supported, please look into the examples.  
*Note:* If you are modifying the namespace with the service running, you might need to restart the Pod.  

### Apply the ConfigMap
```sh
kubectl apply -f kubernetes-lb-controller_ConfigMap.yaml
```

### Apply the Deployment
```sh
kubectl apply -f kubernetes-lb-controller_Deployment.yaml
```

## HOW TO USE IT

The details below assumes you are creating a `Service`, of type `LoadBalancer` on the *default* `Namespace`. It also assumes you followed the previous steps and is running our controller on the *kube-system* `Namespace`. Please, adjust as necessary.

### Deploy a Service with type LoadBalancer
Create a service with `type: LoadBalancer` without specifying the external IP, like for example:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-testing-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: my-testing-service
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: my-testing-app
status:
  loadBalancer: {}
```
*Note:* The service is being created on the `default` namespace.

### Verify the Service got created and got an IP assigned to it
```sh
kubectl get services -n default -o wide
```
*Note:* We are checking the `default` namespace.  

The expected result should be:
```
NAME                 TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP      PORT(S)        AGE       SELECTOR
kubernetes           ClusterIP      10.96.0.1        <none>           443/TCP        102d      <none>
my-testing-service   LoadBalancer   10.104.131.229   192.168.55.10    80:31954/TCP   44s       app=my-testing-app
```

### Verify the Controller Logs
```sh
LB_CONTROLLER=`kubectl get pods -n kube-system | grep kubernetes-lb-controller | awk '{print $1}'`
kubectl logs $LB_CONTROLLER -n kube-system
```
*Note:* Although our service is on *default* `Namespace`, the Controller is running on *kube-system*.  

The expected result should be:
```
[Tue 2018-07-17 21:25:02] ADDED 192.168.55.10 OK namespace:default service:my-testing-service destination:10.104.131.229
[Tue 2018-07-17 21:25:02] MODIFIED 192.168.55.10 IGNORED namespace:default service:my-testing-service destination:10.104.131.229
```
*Note:* When a Service is created/added we'll intercept it with our controller and we'll patch it and modify it so that we can add the desired external IP. This will cause our controller to also intercept the modification that was done by ourselves. In this case we'll ignore the patching because the service descriptor for the service in question will be matching the entry in our internal route table.  

### Verify the Controller Routing Table
```sh
LB_CONTROLLER=`kubectl get pods -n kube-system | grep kubernetes-lb-controller | awk '{print $1}'`
kubectl exec $LB_CONTROLLER -n kube-system cat /routes
```
*Note:* Although our service is on *default* `Namespace`, the Controller is running on *kube-system*.  
*Note:* The route table is being written to a text file called *routes* on */*.  

The expected result should be:
```
Tue 2018-07-17 21:25:02
+----------------+--------+-----------+----------------------+----------------+
|       IP       | IN USE | NAMESPACE |     SERVICE NAME     |   CLUSTER IP   |
+----------------+--------+-----------+----------------------+----------------+
| 192.168.55.10  |   y    |  default  |  my-testing-service  | 10.104.131.229 |
| 192.168.55.11  |   n    |  default  |         None         |      None      |
| 192.168.55.12  |   n    |  default  |         None         |      None      |
+----------------+--------+-----------+----------------------+----------------+
```


## REFERENCES AND IDEAS

1. [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
2. [Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/)
3. [Kubernetes Python Client](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python)
4. [Python SQLite 3](https://docs.python.org/2/library/sqlite3.html)
5. [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/)

## DOCUMENTATION

1. [Building](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/blob/master/BUILD.md)
2. [Examples](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/tree/master/examples)
3. [Tests](https://github.com/feitnomore/kubernetes-lb-controller/tree/master/test)
